1 Introduction of Current Business 
	The Rangoon Heritage Hotel was started in 1980. It is a vintage-style hotel that shows the culture, heritage, and art of Myanmar. It began as a small business with only 9 staff and 15 rooms. Now, it has grown to 27 staff and 50 rooms.	The hotel is known for its traditional feeling and good service. However, the way the hotel manages its daily work has not changed with its growth. All tasks are done using paper, ledgers, and physical files. This paper-based method is now causing problems. It is slow and can lead to mistakes. To continue growing and to serve guests better, the hotel needs to change from paper-based to a computerized software system.
- Current Business Operations 
Managing Rooms: All the related information about each room is recorded in paper. To update some information, the hotel staff need to find the room first and change things by hand.
Handling Bookings: When a guest books a room, the hotel staff checks available room in paper chart. Then filling the booking detail form by hand and copies of this form are stored. To cancel booking, the staff must find the original form and write cancel on paper then update in paper chart.
Managing Check-in and Check-out: Guest must fill out check-in form by hand. The staff must add up all charges by hand when the guest check-out. 
Processing Payments and Refunding: Payments are written down in a financial ledger book, refunding requires manager's approval and manual writing.
Managing Customer Information: Guest information is kept in paper files.

- Current Business Issues 
Delay Time: All activities take longer to complete as they are done manually. Sometimes, information in paper files is not immediately updated between different departments and operations are processed with outdated information. 
Data Security: Paper files can be easily theft by unauthorized person, lost or damaged by natural disasters. 
Difficulty in Reporting: Revenue, expenses and Return On Investment (ROI) are manually calculated and updated in ledgers by financial department. To measure Key Performance Indicator (KPI), HR department need to be processed manually. Final reports are in number formats and difficult to visualize. 
1.4 Improvements for Current Business 
Centralized Database: All the information is stored in central database, which reduce a lot of paper records and hotel staff can get updated information immediately without waiting for manual paper workflows. 
Automation: Most of daily repetitive tasks of updating room availability, managing check-in/ check-out and charging the bills will be automated by the system. 
Secure Data Access: Guest information and financial information are securely stored in authenticated server and cannot be easily access by unauthorized person. It cannot be damaged by fire or natural disaster and more resistant rather than papers. 
Automatic Report Generation: Monthly revenue, expenses and overhead cost will be automatically calculated by the system which saves a lot of time. The system can also generate visualized reports and charts which is useful for decision making and future investments. 

- Proposed System Scope for Rangoon Heritage Hotel 
	The proposed system of the Rangoon Heritage hotel is a web-based solution designed to computerize current business operations and streamline daily routines with minimum effort and delay time. The core of the system is a central database which is cloud storage that keeps all the information of guests and rooms. Every department can get the latest information allowing the staff only to focus on their customer service without worrying about the data error. The proposed system will include following key features: 
Room Management: A simple view for the availability of all 50 rooms. Easy management of room information by interactive user interface. 
Booking Management: Once a room is reserved, the system will instantly block the room. 
Check-in/Check-out Management: pre-fill registration form by using booking data will reduce the waiting time. Generated billing invoice will accurately calculate the final charges. 
Payment and Refund Management: Integrate other payment gateways and mobile banking for easy payment. If the booking is cancelled, the deposit money will automatically refund to the guest bank account without needing for multiple approval.
Customer Management: Each regular customer has a record of room histories and personalized service for better customer relationship management and special discounts.
Analytics and Reporting: The system generate reports based on revenue, expenses and room occupancy. The dashboard view provides a quick overview of the key performance indicators (KPI) of the staff and monthly financial graphs.


2 Aims 
	The system's aim is to process the hotel daily operation more efficiently, boost the net profit and minimize the human errors while giving the personalized service for our guest to honor the hotel's unique heritage. 

3 Objectives 	The project is delivered by [month, week, day] 
3.1 Report on Research [07 July 2025 – 18 Aug 2025]
	To collect, examine, and record requirements of the current hotel operations from hotel staff by interview method. [1 month, 1 week]
Conduct initial interview with front desk staffs to understand the pain point of the current system such as overbooking or long waiting time. [3 days] 
Find out what the system needs by talking to hotel staff and filling out surveys. [4 days] 
Identify key stakeholders and listing the required features. [2 days] 
Examine the market research to know the customer behavior and economic trends. [3 days]
Look for similar systems to do competitor analysis. [5 days] 
Meet with industry experts in hospitality to fill the market gaps and to consider their suggestion. [3 days] 
Prepare business requirements documentation BRD. [4 days] 
Identify risk analysis and make plan for risk management. [4 days] 
Perform feasibility study for technical, operational, and economic. [5 days]
Write a research report that summarizes the results and conclusions about risk management and feasibility. [3days] 
3.2 Service Processes 
	The way the hotel offers service now is made up of independent tasks that don’t work together between different departments. 
 3.3 Strength and Weakness 	The current system strength is stable for simple and isolated operations but its weakness is unable for interconnected operation between different departments. Identify all strength and weakness of the current system by using SWOT analysis.

3.4 Similar System 	Research other similar system to know the market trends and competitor analysis. Especially based on supported features and technical point of view. 

3.5 Non-Functional Requirements
	Specify the non-functional requirements of performance, security, scalability, usability and availability. 

3.6 LESP Issues on Hotel Management System 
	To address issues related to Legal, Ethical, Social and Professional. 

3.7 Global Trends 
	By the technology advancement, many hotels are servicing with AI integrated solutions and AI support chat. Driven by the digital nomad trend, hotels are becoming work-life hubs with speedy internet, co-working spaces, and friendly long-stay packages. To be special among others, they focus on interior decoration with local heritage. 

3.8 Environmental Issues 
	Not only a hotel uses a lot of water supply and electricity, but also, they produce plastic and food waste. This is the big problem that is impacting on sustainability and global climate change. 

3.9 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
	Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is a corporate system that holds a company accountable to itself, its stakeholders, and society. It's an act of purpose to perform business in such a way that it ensures the maximum achievement of profit while making beneficial contributions to society and the environment, more than just meeting the law. 

3.10 Benefits from proposed system 
	To show that the new system brings what good things and it is worth to do. Explain each benefit including both visible and invisible gains. 

3.10.1 Return on Investment (ROI)  
	To measure the investment efficiency by comparing net profit and initial cost for deciding to do.

3.10.2 Improved functions 
	To look at how the new system do operations faster and easier than old system. To know the effectiveness of the new system. 

3.10.3 Training for new system 
	To make a simple training plan so everyone knows how to use the system. This helps more people use it well, cuts resistance, and helps us get the most out of it. 

3.11 Risk from implementation, after implementation 
	To point out the potential issues during the system setup and after setup. To handle issues so the new system can be run as expected. 

3.12 Feasibility Studies 
	To check if the project makes sense and has a good chance to work. This helps us decide if it is worthy to do. 

3.12.1 Break Even Cost 
	To find out when the money saved or earned by the system catches up with what we spend on it. 

3.12.2 Operational feasibility 
	To check the new system can perform day to day action effectively, and how well fits to the requirement needs. 

3.12.3 Technical feasibility 
	To compare methodologies such as Waterfall, Agile and Scrum. 
	To analysis databases such as MongoDB and Postgres.
	To analysis programming languages such as Java, Python and JavaScript.


3.13 Documentation of the Design [19 Aug 2025 – 09 Sep 2025] 
To design system architecture and database schema of the proposed system. [3weeks] 
Review the summarized research report and discuss with key stakeholders. [2 days]
Prioritize the functionalities into Must, Should, Could and Won’t have by MOSCOW prioritization. [3 days] 
Create timebox plan for must have and should have functionalities. [2 days]
Use UML tools to create use case diagrams to know the system scope. [2 days] 
Create context diagrams to overview logical data flow and system context. [2 days]
Make system architecture design, API design and security design. [3 days] 
Present the documentation to stakeholders for validation and feedback. [2 days]
Make adjustments based on stakeholders’ request and get approval. [2 days]  
Deliverables
Chapter 6 Use Case Diagram, Context Diagram and Requirement Analysis (word count 1000-1500) 

3.14 Implementation [10 Sep 2025 – 05 Dec 2026] 
To build the system that including the frontend, backend, and database. [2 months, 3 weeks, 4 days]
Set up the development environment with Node.js, React, and MongoDB. [2 days]
Implement a module for authentication and role-based access control (authorization). [8 days] 
Implement room management and reservation module. [15 days] 
Develop check-in/check-out module. [15 days] 
Integrate payment processing and refund management module. [15 days] 
Implement customer management module. [15 days] 
Execute unit testing and integration testing with quality assurance engineers. [27 days] 
Perform penetration testing with external security team. [9 days] 
Fix reported bugs and security issues from QA teams and security team. [14 days] 
Execute user acceptance testing (UAT) with business analyst, product manager and hotel staff for real world scenarios and challenges. [6 days] 
Create user manual for system user, administration guides for management level and technical documentation for developers. [3 days] 
Create deployment diagrams and backup procedures. [3 days] 
Deploy to the production and setup infrastructure in client site. [3 days]
Conduct user training and security awareness for system users. [5 days]

3.15 Evaluation [08 Dec 2025 – 05 Feb 2026] 
To evaluate performance, usability, and reliability of the system by monitoring system log and resources, user feedback, and comparison against requirements. [1 month, 4 weeks] 
Measure the average response time to check the system performance during peak hours. [5 days] 
Determine the maximum concurrent users and analyze system resource utilization. [4 days]
Monitor the system logging for suspicious activities and configure incident report. [5 days] 
Assess usability testing by questionnaire-based methods. [5 days] 
Gather user feedback and identify improvement areas. [5 days] 
Measure time reduction to complete a task and compare to previous system. [5 days] 
Analyze the guest satisfaction scores by survey form or reviews. [5 days]
Generate monthly report for revenue, expenses and cost saving to make strategic decision. [5 days]
Difficulties throughout the project and what we have learnt from this project. [6 days]
To evaluate both personally and technically and critically analyze based on test results. [8 days]
Document evaluation report based on business growth and plan for future improvements. [6 days]  

4 Legal, Ethical, Social and Professional Issues (LESP)
Legal Issues: The system must be compliance with data protection and privacy laws, guarantees secure payment handling. Software and tools must have official license and financial documents must follow legal reporting standards. 
Ethical Issues: Hotel staff and development team must keep customer information with ethical behavior, integrity, and confidentiality. The system should prevent improper actions, data fraud, or discrimination, while retaining transparency in all operations.
Social Issues: The system impacts both employees and customers. While it enhances productivity and customer satisfaction, it may minimize manual jobs, so appropriate staff training is essential. Accessibility and social inclusion should be prioritized.
Professional Issues: All individuals should follow professional standards in software development and regular use. This involves secure implementation, accurate keeping of records, periodic servicing, and responsible behavior in dealing with system data.  
